And to restore the username, we need to do something after the user was created here because that's
important for creating a user with email and password.
We really can just store that data.
But of course once we got a user created, we can reach out to the fire store database and store extra
user data there if we want to.
So we can simply go here after the full statement, but still inside of the tribe.
BLOCK Because the code I'm about to execute should only run if this was successful, not if we had an
error.
So here, inside of the tribe block, I will now use fire store.
Not fire based off, but fire store.
So for that, let me import package.
Cloud fires store cloud fires stalked dart.
The package I showed you a few minutes ago already.
And then after logging in or after signing up.
I want to use fire store dot instance to store extra user data and actually not after logging in or
signing up, but only after signing up.
So let's move this into the else.
BLOCK This should only run if we signed up, not if we did log in.
So here we can now call collection to reach out to a collection and reach out to the users collection.
This collection doesn't exist yet, but it will be created on the fly so we don't have to create it
ahead of time.
And there we can target a specific document.
And I want to create a document which uses the ID of my user as an ID.
Normally, if you add a document with the ADD method, a new ID is generated dynamically.
I don't want that here.
I want to use an existing ID.
I want to use my existing user ID as a ID in this user's collection.
And you can do that by using the document method and then by passing the ID you want to use as an argument
to this method.
And here that's all the result.
Dot user dot uid.
So this auth result object here has a user object which then has a UUID field, which is that user ID
that was generated for the user by firebase.
And on this document we can then call set data to store extra data for that document.
This is just the identifier of the document.
Here comes the extra data.
Now, as mentioned before, the extra data you store in a document is a map here in Flutter, and you
can have any key value pairs you want.
So I'll add the username key and the value is username.
So the value stored here and this argument and I will also store the email again just to have it there
in this document as well.
And with that, we're adding a new user to the new user's collection when we sign up a new user.
So we simply manage this extra user data here on our own.
Now set data, returns a future.
So we can also await this year to then, for example, clear some loading indicator if we had one or
do whatever we want to do once we're done with that.
Before we manage any loading indicator, let me, however, save this and actually delete this user
this user account here.
Just so that I can re-use this email address and then I'll click sign up again here.
Now if we refresh, this user will be recreated.
But now if we go to database.
We'll see a new users collection here and in there.
We see one document with this ID and in there we have the email and the username.
So that's this extra data which was stored.
And now with that, just to finish up this authentication process, I think it would be a bit nicer
if this sign up button would be replaced with a loading spinner, or maybe both buttons would be replaced
with a loading spinner whilst we're waiting for a result.
And we can easily add such a functionality by going to the off screen and we have a stateful widget
here so we can manage some state here in off screen state.
Bar is.
Is loading could be false initially and we want to set this to true whenever we start logging in or
whenever we start signing up.
So I'll set state here at the beginning of the try block and set is loading equal to true.
And is loading should be set back to false if we have an error.
So here at the end of both catch blocks I'll call set state and set is loading back to false.
So let's grab this in all the edit here and it should also be set to false here in the success case
that we actually added this extra user data.
But we don't need to do this here because we'll soon navigate the user somewhere else anyways, so we
don't have to do that here.
Now, one thing we of course do have to do is we have to utilize this is loading state.
So here to offer form I'll actually pass is loading.
And instead of off for him, we now need to accept this.
So here in off form I add a second property which I want to get here.
A boolean is loading.
Which is set through the constructor.
Like this.
And then in our widget tree, which is being rendered.
Here we can replace the raised button and the flat and the flat button with a loading indicator.
For Dad we could check if is if widget is loading is true.
And if that is the case, I will render a circular progress indicator.
And the race button should be removed.
So if not, which it is loading, this button should show up and therefore it's removed if we are loading
and I apply the same logic to the flat button here.
So the two buttons are only showing if we're not loading.
If we are loading, I show the circular progress indicator instead.
So if I save this and click on sign up, you'll see the loading spinner.
And then here I get an error because I already use this email address, but you see that the loading
spinner works and that's great.
So with that, out of the way.
We got that working, we got the extra data stored.
Now let's make sure that we actually move the user to the chat screen if we are authenticated.